---
layout: default
title: "Git-GitHub"
categories: git
permalink: /:categories/:title
---
## Setup

### First time Git configuration

Before you can start using Git, you need to configure it. Run each of the following lines on the command line to make sure everythingt is set up.  

```bash
# sets up git with your name
git config --global user.name "Your-Full-Name"

# sets up Git with your email
git config --global user.email "Your-GitHub-email"

# makes sure that Git output is colored
git config --global color.ui auto

# displays the original state in a conflict 
git config --global merge.conflictstyle diff3

git config --list
```

### Git & Code Editor

The last step of configuration is to get Git working with your code editor. Below are three of the most popular code editors. If you use a different editor, then do a quick serach on Google for "associate X text editor with Git" (replace the X with the name of your code editor).  

### Atom Editor Setup

```bash
git config --global core.editor "atom --wait"
```

## Creat a Repo from scratch

```bash
git init
```

Running the `git init` command sets up all of the necessary files and directories that Git will use to keep track of everything. All of these files are stored in a directory called `.git`  

- **config file{: style="color: red"}** - where all project specific configuration setting are stored.
- **description file** - this file is only used by the GitWeb program, so we can ignore it.
- **hooks directory** - this is where we could place client-side or server-side scripts that we can use to hook into Git's different lifecycle events.
- **info directory** - contains the global excludes file.
- **objects directory** - this directory will store all of the commits we make.
- **refs directory** - this directory holds pointers to commits (basically the "branches" and "tags")

## Clone an Existing Repo

```bash
git clone <path-to-repository-to-clone>
```

```bash
git clone <path-to-repository-to-clone> <your-custom-name>
```

## Determine A Repo's Status

```bash
git status
```

the output tells us two things:  

1. `on branch master` - this tells us that Git is on the `master` branch. You've got a description of a branch on your terms sheet so this is the "master" branch (which is the default branch).

2. `Your branch is up-to-data with 'origin/master'.` - Because `git clone` was used to copy this repository from answer computer, this is telliing us if our project is in sync with the one we copied from. We won't be dealing with the project on the other computer, so this line can be ignored.
3. `nothing to commit, working directory clear` - this is saying that there are no pending chnages.

```bash
git log
fatal: your current branch 'master' does not have any commits yet
```
